Startup Spotlight: Langfuse (#7550)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/spotlight/startup-langfuse.md

---
title: "How Langfuse pivoted and raised $4M after leaving Y Combinator "
date: 2024-01-16
author: ["joe-martin"]
showTitle: true
rootpage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
hideAnchor: true
featuredImage: ../images/blog/startup_beforesunset.png
featuredImageType: full
category: Startups
---

> Each month, we speak to a team enrolled in [PostHog for Startups](/startups) about the way they work. This time, we spoke to [Langfuse](https://langfuse.com/), an open source observability platform for LLMs, about their Y Combinator experience.  

> For the team at Langfuse, the past 12 months have been a blur of activity and highlights. After completing Y Combinator’s W23 batch they’ve earned over 1.5k [GitHub stars](/spotlight/startup-documenso), won Product of the Day on [Product Hunt](/spotlight/startup-before-sunset-ai) and raised a $4M seed round backed by Lightspeed Venture Partners. 

Reviewer: Links to GitHub and Product Hunt still point to old articles
https://github.com/langfuse/langfuse/
https://www.producthunt.com/products/langfuse#langfuse

Author: ```suggestion
For the team at Langfuse, the past 12 months have been a blur of activity and highlights. After completing Y Combinator’s W23 batch they’ve earned over [1.5k GitHub stars](https://github.com/langfuse/langfuse/), won Product of the Day on [Product Hunt](https://www.producthunt.com/products/langfuse#langfuse) and raised a $4M seed round backed by Lightspeed Venture Partners. 
```

“We’ve been very lucky,” says Langfuse co-founder Marc Klingen. “Not only have we had the support and encouragement of [Y Combinator](/customers/ycombinator), but we’ve also benefited from the surging popularity of the LLM community too. There are so many teams solving problems with AI at the moment — it’s been a big plus for us.”

> Langfuses’ success is attributable to more than just good luck and the raise of AI, however. They’ve also succeeded by taking advantage of the opportunities available to them and applying some hard-learned lessons from their time in Y Combinator...

Reviewer: Langfuse's instead of Langfuses’
rise of AI instead of raise of AI

Author: ```suggestion
Langfuse's success is attributable to more than just good luck and the rise of AI, however. They’ve also succeeded by taking advantage of the opportunities available to them and applying some hard-learned lessons from their time in Y Combinator...
```

Although Y Combinator takes place in San Francisco, Langfuse’s founding team are all from Berlin. They relocated to the USA for the duration of the batch, then returned to Germany once the batch was over.

“We are always debating moving back to San Francisco,” admits Marc. “But at the same time, we’re just very productive here. We know good engineers here and, while we could get by remotely, we want to build the initial team in an office. We go back to San Francisco from time to time to meet users there instead.” 

Moving away from Silicon Valley may sound like an odd move for a tech startup, but Marc believes it’s been for the best and has helped the team gain a home-turf advantage. 

> **Putting it into practice:** Regardless of whether you prefer an in-person or a remote environment, it’s important to [get everyone together at least once or twice a year](/handbook/company/offsites).

### Build open source to reach enterprises

One of the best early decisions the team made was to make Langfuse completely open source where possible. This helped the team not only benefit from external code contributions, but also avoid scaling up sales functions prematurely. 

> “Open source is a great way to get more enterprise adoption,” says Marc. “We wouldn’t have expected to reach large Fortune 5000 companies without a dedicated sales team, but we’ve since realized that teams in those companies frequently adopt open source tools because they give them more visibility and control over data.”

Reviewer: Fortune 500?

Author: ```suggestion
“Open source is a great way to get more enterprise adoption,” says Marc. “We wouldn’t have expected to reach large Fortune 500 companies without a dedicated sales team, but we’ve since realized that teams in those companies frequently adopt open source tools because they give them more visibility and control over data.”
```
